05/22/1787
May 22 1787
At a meeting held for the purpose of taking the Salve Trade into Consideration it was resolved that the said Trade was both impolitick and unjust

Resolved, that Granville Sharpe, Joseph Woods, Samuel Hoare juniot, William Dillwyn, George Harrison, James Phillips, Richard Phillips, Thomas Clarkson, Philip Sansom, John Lloyd, Joseph Hooper and John Barton be a Committee for procuring such Information and Evidence, and for distributing Clarkson’s Essay and much other Publications, as may tend to the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and for directing the Application of such monnies, as are already, or may hereafter be collected, for the above Purposes.
Resolved, that three members be a Cuorum.
Resolved, that Samuel Hoare junior be appointed Treasurer to the Society
Resolved, that the Treasurer pay no money on Account of this Society, but by ORder of the Committee
Resolved, that one hundred Copies of these Resolution be printed, with addition, vez The Subscriptions of such as are disposed to contribute towards carrying on the Design of this Institution, will be recieved by the Treasurer, or any member of the Committee.
Adjourned to Thursday Evening May the 24th at six o’Clock.
Adjourned999
05/24/1787
May the 24th 1787
Present, Gramville Sharpe, Samuel Hoare junr, Joseph Woods, John Llod, Joseph Hooper, John Barton, George Harrison, James Phillips, Richard Phillips, and Thomas Clarkson-
Read and Confirmed the Minutes of the Last Committee.
Thomas Clarkson brought for the Inspection and Consideration of the Committee certain Papers, containing an Communication of the Facts relative to the Inhumanity and Impolicy of the Slave Trade, and the probably Consequences of the it’s Abolition of which the following is a Copy.
A Summary View
of the
Slave - Trade
and 
Probably Consequences of its Aboltion
I. Slaves are acquired by War.
Observation.
These Ware are, for the most Part, entered into by the Parties concerned, without any previous Injury on either Side, and for no other motive, than to furnish Slaves for the Europeans, by whom they have been supplied with arms & ammunition, and frequently bribed for this Purpose. During some of these Wars, the Victors have been so incenced at the Resistance they have found, that their Spirit of Vengence has entirely pervaided over their Avarice, and though they have ingaged in the Conflict for the express Purpose of procuring Slaves, they have been known to murder every Individual, without Discrimination either of Age of Sex.
II. Slaves are aquired in Consequence of Crimes
Observation.
Before the Slave Trade commenced, Criminals were punished in Africa, much in the same Manner as those among other nations in the same Stage of Society; but since the Introduction of this Trade, all Crimes have been punished with Slavery. Every Artifice has been used by the Prince innocent, have been deemed Crimes for the Sake of inflicting the Punishment. New Distinctions have also been made in Crimes, that additional Punishment might succeed. The Offender, in one Instance, forfeit his own freedom; in a second, that of the male Part of his Family, together with his own; in a third the whole Family suffer; and, in a fourth, the Relations of the Offender as they can be traced. And thus many Thousands of innocent Persons have been consigned to Slavery.
III. Slaves are acquired by the Virtue of the Right of Emire in the Prince
Observation.
The Prince considers his Village, as man Packs or Resevoirs, stocked for his own Luxury and Use. When the black Broker tempts him with his merchendize, and Crimes and War have not punished him with a number adequate to the Demand, he seizes certain Villagers, who are put into Chains, and led, whole Families together, to the Ships.
This is particularly the Case with the King of DAhomey, who rules his Subjects with such despotick Sway, as to apprehend no Resistance, on their part, to his measures.
However, in other Parts of the Country, the mode of seizing them is a little varied. The King groes with his Guards to one of his Villages in the night; he surrounds it, and sets it on fire; the poor Villagers, flying in Consternation for the Flames, fall into the Hands of the Tyrant. This moder therefore, differs from the forman in this Respecto nly, that many are terribly burnt on the Occasion, and others perish.
IV. Slaves are acquired by Kidnapping.
Observation.
Slave-Hunters, consisting of the natives, are employed in the inland Country to kidnap the unwary. They lie in the wait frequently in the Rice-Fields, to carry off al such as may be stationed there for the Purpose of driving the Birds from the Grain. They lie in wait also at the Springs of Water, to which the natives resort to quench their Thirst, and in Thickets by the Sides of Creeks, to fall upon those solitary Beings, who fish there either for amusement or for food: but their principle Station is in the Long Gress, by the Side of particular Pathways, which are cut from from one Village to another. from which they spring out upon their Prey, and secure it.
But the Natives, are not the only People concerned in these inquitous Practices. The British Traders have enticed the Natives to the Shore for the Purpose of Trade; they have tempted them there with Biscuits, with Brandy, and other Spirits, and, having made them intoxicated, they have forced on board and sailed off with them to the Colonies.
These are the various methods, by which Slaves have been usually obtained; and so successful have the Practices been, that many millionns of People, since the Introduction of the Trade, have been actually put on board European Ships, and consigned to Slavery.
Many of the Slaves, acquired by these methods, have been brought 1200 miles from the inland Country,and have been obliged to pass through inhospitable Woods and Deserts, where Thousands of them have died through Fatigue and Thirst.
The annual Exportation from Africa consists of about one hundred thousand People. Of these, more than 20,000 die on their Voyage from close Confinement and other Causes, and at least that number in the Seafaring; so those that perish in the long and fatiguing march before described, it will appear that about an hundred thousands are annually murdered, even before the Planter can say he has any additional Stock for his Plantation.
Of those that survive the Voyage and Seasoning, it may be said, that being subjected in many Instances to the most cruel and despotick Treatment, they persih in a few years, and scarcely a Vestige is to be found, that an hundredth Part of this immense Body of People, anually enslaved ipon the Coast, had ever been in Existence.
The Author, from whom these Obervations have been mostly taken, and whose Book treats of the Injustice and Inhumanity of the Slave Trade, is now preparing a Sequel to the said work, comprehending the Impolicy of it, and the Consequences that are likely to arise from its Abolition
The Work is divided into two Parts.
Part: I.
I. Africa has two Sorts of Commodities to offer, viz. The Productions of its Soil and Negroe-Slaves
As it is impossible that we can trade in both of them at the same Time [one of them having hitherto proved an inseprable Impediment to the other] the Question is, in which of the two it is most politick to deal.
The one is replete with misery and Destruction to the human Peace, and is beneficial but to a few Individuals; whereas the other, consisting of Cotton, Indigo, Tobacco, Rice, Coffee, Spices, Drugs, mahogany, dying Woods, Wax, Ambergis, Honey, Ivory, Gold etc. would be of national advantage, as it would amply reapy us for the Loss of America, break the monopoly of the Dutch, be the cheapest market for new material for our manufacturers, and be attended with other publick Benefits.
II. The negroe-Trade, as has been observed before, is profitable to a few; it is ruinous to some and it is hazardous at the best: none of which Circumstances would be peculiar to the other Trade.
III. The Negroe-Trade is bad, in one Point of View, bother for the Merchant and the Manufacturer. The former recieves his Slaves Bills at eighteen, twent foure and sometimes thirty six months after Sight. The Credit, which the latter is obliged to give, is eighteen months. Whereas the merchant and manufacturer in the Trade alluded to would recieve their returns twice, if not three times, within the year.
IV. The Negroe-Trade destroys, from the very Nature of it, near 2000 Seamen anually. The Loss of these is of the utmost Importance to a people, whose Wellfare, nay, whose Existence, in the present prolitical Situation of Europe, as a commercial nation, depends upon their naval strength and Importance. This Loss can never be compensated by any Emoluments, which Individuals may obtain in the Trade. Whereas the Trade alluded to, even if the same Ships and Men were employed, would not disipate them as at present, but become a nursery instead of being a Grave.
V. The Negroe-Trade (use) a Branch of it, by enabling the French to clear and cultivate new Land in St. Domingo [which they are unable to do to the Extent of their own Wishes with out our Resistance] is replete with the most pernicious Consequences to the British Nation.
This Island, is fully cultivated, can produce more Sugar than all our Colonies together. Every Lot of Slaves, which we import there, enables them to clear an additional Acre. Every Acre so gained supplies additional Produce. This Produce employs additional Ships to old France. Nor does this Evil stop here. A new Fleet of Ships is raised for them in exporting this Produce to other Countries. Now, if we consider that French Ships carry double the number of men that our of the same Burthen do, we shall find that we are enabling our enemies, by this Branch of the Trade to dispute with us the Sovreignty of the Seas.
Part:2.
The first Section contains an Account of seven Plantations, which have wanted no Supplies for some years. But it must be observed, that on these Plantations the Negroes were treated with Humanity, and Population was encouraged. Indeed on one of them, where the Treatment was superior to that of the Rest, the Numbers increased so much, that the Plantation was overstocked.
The Author shows, from these Instances, that if a Planter treats his Slaves well, and encourages Population, they must increase. But that, if the same Plantation falls into the Hands of acaricious and unfeeling men, it must go back in a few years, and require Supplies.
He then states, that if the Slave-Trade is abolished, the Planters will be obliged to treat their Slaves with Humanity, and encourage Population; and, of course, that the Islands can never be want of Cultivators.
He then goes into the various Causes of the Dimunition of Slaves in the Colonies; and shows, that all these Causes will be unmoved, if the Slave-Trade is abolished.
One of them is this: When a Slave-Ship arrives in the Colonies, her Cargoe invariably consists of two thirds male, and the Remainder female. This is but a bad Proportion of the Senses for Proagation. But when they are put up to Sale, an avarcious Planter, who can give a better Price than his neighbour, and who will not suffer the Pregnancy of Women to stop the Work of his Plantation, buys them in a still greater Disproportion, viz, in that of five to one, jis Views being chiefly confined to the males. The females fall mostly to the Lot of the indigent and involved, who cannot favour them. Hence a Separation of the Sexes; otherwise it would never happen that so many Thousands of both Sexes, annually imported into the Colonies, should pass away in a little Time, and scarcely leave a Seed behind them.
Now says the Author if the Imporation are stopped, and sufficient previous notice is given of the Event, the avaricious Planter, who formerly purchased males alone, will be obliged at the next Sales to purchase Females; which those on the other Hand, who have the greatest Proportion of Females, will in their Turn purchase males.
He then shows that much more Work will be done in the same Time; that the Planters will be richer and happier; that the Islands will be free from the Insurrections; with which they are now continually harassed; that the numerous Suicides which happen, all of which are considerable in the Colonies, to a prodigious Extent, will be cleared and cutivated; that the Revenue will of course be greatly improved; and that a foundation will be laid for a general Emancipation at last, and a Conversion to Christianity. Which, if they take Place, will not only be of considerable advantage to the Slaves themselves, but to the Planters, as their Estates [so much is the Balance in favour of free Labour] will be doubly valuable.
To these consideration he adds, that if the Plan of the abolition of the Slave Trade takes place with the English alone, many thousand lives will be annually saved.
Resolved, that two thousand Copies of the above Summary be printed; and James Phillips is requested immediately to print the same.
Thomas Clarkson is requested to correct the Press.
The Treasurer reports that the amount of the Subscriptions already recieved in one hundred and thirty six Pounds, ten Shillings.
Adjourned to Thursday Jun 7th 1787
Adjourned999
06/07/1787
Thursday June 7th. 1787
Present Samuel Hoare Junr, George Harrison, Joseph Hooper, John Barton, Joseph Woods, William Dillwyn, Philip Sansom, James Phillips, Richard Phillips, and Thomas Clarkson.
Read and confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee.
The Treasurer reports that has recieved the farthen Sum of one hundred and two Pounds, two Shillings and ninepence.
Paid L2..12..0 to William Rathbone of Liverpool for a charge recieved by him in precuring the Copies of the muster Bolls of fifty two Vessels belonging to that Port.
Paid 30.00.00 to James Phillips for 300 of Clarksons Essays.
James Phillips reports that the 2000 Copies of a Summary View of the Slave-Trade and the probable
Page 7
Sequences of its abolition have been printed according to the request of the committee, and many of them have already been distributed to proper people. 
Thomas Clarkson reports that   dr. Baker of lower Grosvenor Street has been very active, both in the distribution of his essays, and in personal applications to several members of the House of peers and Commons.
Resolved that the thanks of this committee be communicated by Thomas Clarkson to the said dr. Baker for his zealous extensions in the cause of humanity and freedom.
John Barton reports that he is commissioned by the author of a poem intitled  “the wrongs of Africa” , to offer the prophets, which may arise from that work, to the committee, or the people of enabling them to prosecute their present plan. 
Resolved that John Barton communicate the thanks of the committee to the said author, informing him at the same time that the committee gratefully accept his offer.
James Phillips is desired to print a number of copies of the  lists of the subscribers, in order to be forwarded with a proportionate of Clarkson's essays, summaries, and lists of the committee to different parts of the Kingdom.
 adjourned to Tuesday June the 12th. at half past 5 o’Clock in the evening
Adjourned999
06/12/1787
June 12th 1787
Presents Granville Sharpe, William Dillwyn, Samuel Hoare Junr., Richard Phillips, James Phillips, and George Harrison.
Read and confirmed the minutes of the last committee.
The treasurer reports that he has received the farther than some of thirty five pounds fourteen Shillings.
 resolved that Thomas Clarkson be requested to proceed as soon as he conveniently can, too Bristol, Liverpool, and such other places as he may think necessary, in order that he may collect information on the subject of the Slave trade, and that he communicates and account of his progress by letter to the treasurer for the information of the committee.
Resolved that Thomas Clarkson beat requested to Value upon the treasurer such sums of money, as may be necessary for  depaying his expenses.
Resolved that the treasurer is hereby authorized to paint such draft, as Thomas Clarkson May draw on him, reporting the same to the committee.
Resolved at Thomas Clarkson desired to communicate to the committee  an account of the expenses and disbursements he has already been at during the prosecution of his inquiry into the slave trade.
Dan Taylor attended the committee, and informed them that he had a message from the general assembly of the Baptist, which would be communicated at another opportunity.
James Phillips produced a rough draft of a circular letter to be forwarded to the country, giving some account of the proceedings of the committee, which, with some alterations, is approved, and he is desired to print 250 copies of the same for the use of the committee.
Adjourned to Tueday the 22.d Ins.t
these four pages and a half were written by my own hands in 1787. Thomas Clarkson
Adjourned999
1787/06/22 
June 22 : 1787.
Present Sam.l Hoare Jun.r,  Philip Sansom, will.m  Dillwyn, George Harrison, John Barton, James Phillips & Rich.d Phillips
Read and confirmed the minutes of the last committee.
Proof of the circular letter was laid before the committee also a list of the subscribers names which are extract from from the resolutions of which Ja.s Philips is desired to present 500 &  forward one dozen to every Member of the committee.
Stephen  Lowdell & Dan Taylor  attended the committee by a depictation from the  annual meeting of the General Baptist with  information of the Society’s approbation of our proceedings and resolution to give their countenance & support towards the Accomplishment of our views which  communication is very acceptable to this committee.
Resolved that 200 copies of the summary View, 40 of the circular letter and list of subscribers with the names of the committee &  also One dozen of T. Clarkson's essays in equal divisions be sent to Stephen Lowdell & Dan Taylor.
Upon a report of Richard Phillips, that Tho. Clarkson  has expended sixty seven Pounds  in the prosecution of his Endeavors for the abolition of the slave trade.
Resolved that the treasurer be directed to pay the same.
Adjourned to Tuesday the 12 July next at J. Phillips in George Yard at 6 o’Clock P.M
Adjourned999
1787/07/05
At a Special Meeting held at James Sterridges in George Yard 5th July 1787
Present.
Sameuel Hoare, William Dilwin, John Barton, Joseph Woods, George Harrison, Richard Phillips, Phillip Sanson
James Phillips	Joseph Hooper
Read and Confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee James Phillips having reported that he had not been able to distribute the Copy of the Circular Letter, and List of Subscriptions agreeably to the Minutes of the last Meeting. He is desired to make such distribution, and to send the Books and List to Stephen Lordel and D Taylor before the next meeting of the Committee.
S. Hoare reported that agreably to the Resolution of the Last Meeting he had paid to Mr. Clarkson Sixty Seven Pounds.
A Letter from William Smith Esqr. of Clapham having been read it was
Resolved, that the thanks of of the Committee be given to William Smith Esqr. for his interesting Letter of the 1st Inst. assuring him of the Satisfaction they recieve from the coincidence of his Sentiments with their own. That they feel much pleasure from the Zeal he addresses and will be glad to avail themselves in future of his assistance as a Support in the attainment of the common object of their rushes.
Resolved, that the Chairman be desired to hand a Copy of the above Resolution to Will.m Smith Esqr.
Resolved, that Joseph Woods, Phillip Sansom, James Phillips, & George Harrison, be requested to make enquiry for a proper Room for the future meetings of the Committee.
The Committee having recieved information that Societies are established at Philadelphia and New York for the abolition of Slavery
Resolved, that William Dilwyn, Joseph Woods, George Harrison, & Phillips Sansom be desired to prepare a Letter to these Societies to inform them of the Measures this Committee are taking for the abolition of the Slave Trade and to request they will from Time to Time favor them with such information on the Subject as they may think necessary.
This Committee entertaining a due sense of the favoures rendered to the cause which they wish to promote by James Ramsay in his various publications on the Subject, appoint William Dilwyn, Joseph Woods, George Harrison and Phillip Sansom to acquaint him of this Institution, and to request his Communication and Attendance, whenever he may find it available
Resolved, That the Members of the Committee be desired to produce to the Meeting of the Committee a List of the Persons in different parts of England, Scotland, and Ireland to whom they intend to convey the Letter & Summary view of the Slave Trade for distribution;
Resolved, That a Seal be Engraved for the use of this Society and that Joseph Woods, Dr Hooper, and Phillip Sansom, be requested to prepare a Design for the Same to be laid before the Committee.
Adjourned to Tuesday the 17th July
Adjourned999
1787/07/17
At a Committee held pursuant to Adjournment at James Stevidges 17th July 1787.
Present, John Barton	Richard Phillips
William Dilwyn	James Phillips
George Harrison	Gramville Sharpe
Samuel Hoare Junr.	Phillip Sansom
Joseph Hooper	Joseph Woods
Read and Confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee
James Phillips reports that he has sent the Books, and Papers conformably to the minutes of the Committee
The Treasurer reports that he has communicated the Resolution of the last Committee to William Smith Esqr.
Joseph Woods from the Committee appointed to enquire for a proper Room for the Meetings of this Committee, reports that they have seen a suitabe Room at N18 in the Old Jewry at L25 P Annum.
Resolved, that the Committee be desired to engage the Said Room, for Six Months certain;
Joseph Woods, from the Committee brought in a Letter addressed to James Ramsay agreably to the Resolution of last Committee, which  Letter being read was agreed to and Signed by the Treasurer on behalf of this Committee.
The Treasurer, reports that he has recieved L21 account of this Society since last Committee
The following Letter was agreed to, and the Chairman was desired to sign and forward the same to Benjamin Rush the Secratary addressed; to the President, Vice President and Committee of the Pennsylvania Society for promoting the abolition of Slavery and the Relief of free Negroes unlawfully held in Bondage.
“Gentlemen!
Our Satisfaction in hearing of a Society established for the purpose of promoting the abolition of Slavery & induces the Committee of an Institutiona form’d with a more particular View to the discouragement of the Slave Trade to give this early Testimony of our yearly approbation of your benevolent plan; and thus to introduce a Correspondance, from which reciprocal advantages may arise in the prosecution of our own respective Designs; so nearly allied in their Nature and Tendency.
We are glad to inform you that the claims of humanity in this respect, have here found many respectable patrons, amongst whom are several of rank and influence.  our immediate aim is, by diffusing a knowledge of the subject and particularly the modes of procuring and treating Slaves, to interst men of every description in the Abolition of the Traffic, but especially those from whom any alteration must proceed - The Members of our Legislature. For this purpose a List of Subscriptions has been sent on foot, which has enabked us to disperse Tracts written on the Subject, and Thomas Clarkson is now absent with the concurance of the Committee, endeavouring to collect evidence in various parts of this Nation of such Facts as are proper to be laid before Parliament.
The Laws permit no Slavery in this Country and it is probably that the Establishment of the Trade has been on present derived from the distance of Situation which, together with the Interest of the Parties immediately concerned, has enveloped the Subject in Obscurity. We hope at least that Some Benefit will arise to the Nation of Africa, by disclosing to the publick biew the horrid methods which have been taken to Scatter amongst them the Seeds of Discord and War, and we do not despair of convincing the world of the Impolity as wel as Barbarity, of this Commerce in the Bodies of Rational Creatures.
We should be very glad to recieve from You any information that may Lend to effect the purpose of our own Institution -we are particularly desirous of knowledge what consequences have resulted to Plantations where the Manumission of Slaves has already taken Place. 
At Present we have only to add our Cordial wishes for the Success of your endeavours and assure you of our Sincere respect and of our desire to cooperate with You in what ever may tend to promote
Signed by Order of the Committee.
The following Persons have engaged to send a number of the summary view & list of the subscribers to the places annex’d to each name.

James Phillips
Cornwall.	John Edwards, Hayle
		Richard Phillips(striked through) Jenkins Wadebridge
		Edward Fox
		(scribbles that are impossible to read)

George Harisson
Devon.		Francis Fox, 	Plymouth:
		Walter Prideaux, Dartmouth

		Ivel Cadbury,	Exter: James Phillips

Semerset
Thomas Fox, Wellington: George Harrison
Joseph Bull, Bridgewater: James Phillips
Dr. Pethergise, Bath: Granville Sharp
William Mauhaus, D.	Phillip Sansom

Dorset
William Gillett, Yeovil: George Harrison
Moses Neare, Poole: James Phillips
Thomas Thompson, Compton

Wilts.
John Ma., Westbury: James Phillips
Richard Smith, Saxum
William Buller, Wilton

Hants
John Merryweather, Ringwood: James Phillips
L. Waring	Atoon
James Portal, Treafolk
William Tatcher: Granville Sharp

Glouctershire, Robert Rawkes gloster: Saml. Hoare Junr.
Henry Wilkins, Cirencester: James Philips
John PLayer, Stoke: Dr.
David Hastley, Sudbury: Philip Sansom

Bristol
James Hafford: James Phillips
Matthew Weight

Berks.
Robert Maggock: Joseph Hooper
Dr Pofw, Maidenshead: James Phillips
John Snelling, Favingden: George Harrison

Surry
Dr Warring, Godalmen: James Phillips
Sir Joseph Mawby: Granville Sharpe
John Biddle, Shon: James Phillips
Robert Barclay, Clapham, Saml Hoare

Adjourned to Friduay at 6 o’Clock at N18, the Old Jewry
Adjourned999
1787/07/20
At a Committee held Pursuant to Adjournment at the office at N18 Old Jewry
Present, John Barton	Joseph Hooper
	William Dilwyn	James Phillips
	George Harrison	Phillip Sansom
	Samuel Hoare Junr.	Rich.d Phillips
Read and approved the Minutes of the last Committee
George HArrison from the Committee appointed to provide a Room reports that they have hired the front Room on the first floor N18 Old Jewry at the Rent of L25.. P annum to commence the 20th Inst.d Two Months notive of quitting to be given. The Servant of the House to light the Fire and Candles when wanted, a Lodging Room if required to be had for L5 p Annum more which this Committee confirms.
The following Persons have engaged to send a Number of the Summary view and list of the Subscribers to the place annex’d to each name

Sussex.
	Arundel, 		Joseph Hooper
	Lewes,			Ditto
Thomas Summers. Horsham 	James Phillips

Kent.
William Cooper Rochester 	Ditto
John Clark, Canterbury 		William Dilwin
William Pattisons
Richard Sam.l, Dores		James Phillips

Essex 
Robert Taylor, Colchester	Phillip Sansom
John Kendal, Ditto		James Phillips
Samuel Day, Hansted		Joseph Hooper
Joseph Doewire, Kelredon,	James Phillips
Richard Baker, Chelmsford	Phillip Sansom
James Heaby, Epping		William Dilwyn

Herts
David Barclay, New (faded)	George Harrison
Jonathan Bell, Hertford		Joseph Woods
William Lucas, Hitchin		Sam.l Hoare
John Prier, Bedook		James Phillips

Bucks
Rev.d Good, Buckingham, 	Phil. Sansom
Robert Eele, Amersham		James Phillips

Oxfordshire
Rob.t Maddock, Wetney		Ditto
               Oxford,		John Barton
Thomas Huntley, Burford		James Phillips

Bedfordshite
George Exton, amphill		James Phillips
Kerling, Luton			Joseph Hooper

Suffolk
John Foot, Bury			James Phillips
Samuel Alexander, Needham	Sam.l Hoare
Dykes Alexander, Ipswich	James Phillips
James Lynn, Woodbridge		Joseph Hooper

Norfolk
Jos.h Gurney, Norwhich		Samuel Hoare
William Lee, Ditto		Rich.d Phillips
John Burkbeck, Lynn		James Phillips
Dr Aikin, Yarmouth		John Barton
Joseph Haycock, Wells.		Ditto

Cambridge
Jonath.n Peckover, Wisbeach	James Phillips
T. S. Mackenzie, Cambridge

Hunts.
John Abbot, S. Ines.		Ditto
Ramsay				S. Hoare

Nortampton
Benj. Middleton, Wellingbro	James Phillips
Francis Oakley, Northampton, 	Ditto

Warwickshite
Charles Lloyd, Bermingham	Samuel Hoare
Edward Geelson, Corenbry	James Phillips
Joseph Seymour, Warwick		
				John Barton

Wocester.
John Zackery, Areley		James Phillips

Hereford
William Young, Leominster	Ditto

Shropshire
John Wilkinson, Brosely		Ditto

Stafford

Leicester
Chamberlain, Leicester		Phillip Sansom
Danwil Woodland, Ditto		James Phillips

Derby
Joseph Storrs, Chesterfield	Ditto
John Gregory, Nottingham
Walker, Ditto			John Barton

Cheshire
John Cash			James Phillips
Brackenbury Chester

Linconshite
Audley, Boston			T. for J Wright
John Massey, Spalding		James Phillips
Cap.n Pearson, Louth		John Barton

Yorkshire
William Tuke, York		James Phillips
Hurtler, Bradford
Joseph Eglin, Hull		Richard Phillips
John, Sheffield			James Phillips
John Cockshutt			
Joseph Mr Burbeck, Settle
Dr. Walker, Leeds		George Harrison
Archibald Blackburne, Richmond	John Barton
Sanders, Whitby,		John Barton
Smith, Doncaster		Geroge HArrison

Lancashire
John Wilkinson, Lancaster	James Phillips
William Rothbone, Liverpool	James Phillips
William Roscoe, Liverpool	John Barton
Benj. Potter, Manchester	Phillip Sanson
Samuel Eaton, Warrington	John Barton
John Dillworth, Lancaster	George Harrison
Arkinson, Preston		John Barton

Westmoreland
Harrison	Kendall 	George Harrison
John Willson
Thomas Davidson			D.

Cumberland
Eiha Robinson, Egglesfield	John Barton
George Bewley, Whitehaven	George Harrison
John Mutchenson, Carlisle	John Barton
John Losh, Woodside		Ditto

Northumberland
Rob Armston, Newcastle		George Harrison
Henry Taylor, North Shields,	William Dillwyn

Durkham
James Backhouse, Darlington	James Phillips
John Richardson, Sunderland

Scotland
Edinburg			John Barton
P. Colguhoun, Glasgow		James Phillips

Glamorgan
Joseph Bowles, Neath		James Phillips
W. Padley Swansea

Pembroke
John Lewis, Haverford West	James Phillips

Resolved, that 5000 Copies of the Summary View be printed for distribution agreable to the foregoing List

Resolved, That Samuel Hoare Joseph Woods and James Phillips be desired to revise the circular Letter and that 500 Copies be printed
Adjourned to the 7th of next Month at 1/2 past 5 precicely
Adjourned999
1787/08/07
7th Aug 1787, At a Committee held pursuant to adjournment at the Office No18 in the Old Jewry.
Present, Joseph Jooper, Phillip Sansom, William Dillwyn, George Harrison, Joseph Woods, Samuel Hoare Junr, James Phillips, Richard Phillips and John Barton.
Read and confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee.
The Committee appointed to prepare a design for a seal is continued thereon
The expediency of making some addition to the Committee being taken into consideration, it was 
Resolved that a number not exceeding eight be added thereto.
A Motion was made, and agreed to, that Robert Barclay and John Vickris Taylor be members of this Committee and that the Treasurer be desired to inform them thereof,
The Treasurer reports that he has recieved a letter from Thomas Clarkson, requesting permissiong of the Committee to take Mr Townbridge with him to Liverpool, and allow him Ten Pounds for the assistance he has already recieved from him.
The following answer, written by the Treasurer is approved by the Committee.
“Thomas Clarkson		London 25th July 1787
Esteememed Friend,
Upon recieving the favour the 24th Int.d, I had a conference with a few gentlemen of the Committee, who concur with me in my opinion, that in the present stage of the business it would be improper we cut any expence in detaining Evidence selective to the heated, and open source of Abjection which I have not now a time to explain. With respect to the employment of Mr Townsbridge, to give thee assistancem and taking him to Liverpool, I think there will be no objection, provided he is really a man of good character and deserving confidence. Best the litte experience I have already had of mankind has excited much caution on forming my opinions from first appearences. I hope the zeal and animation with which thou hast taken up the cause will be accompanied with temper and moderation which can alone secure its success. Although we have hitherto procured a liberal support, it may not continued. At present attention to oeconomy is therefore requisite. I think the Committee will make no objection to pay the Ten Pounds, but will desire to be informed, the terms upon which Mr T is to go to Liverpool, as well as to be furnished with some general idea of the expenses incurred. I hope the forgoing remarks will not be be considered in any other view tthese those suggestion presedenceto to hastily occured on the pressure of the Letter which has now time to revised
sincerely,
Thy assured Friend

James Phillips is desired to provide a book for the use of the Committee to record such Facts are related to the Slave Trade
The Committee adjourns to the 21 st Inst at half past five o’Clock, of which John Barton is desired to give notice
1787/08/21
At a Committee held pursuant to adjournment at the Office in Old Jewry - Present
Samual Hoare Junr	Joseph Hooper
John Barton	John Lloyd
James Phillips	William Dillwyn
Richard Phillips
Read and Confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee
The Committee appointed to prepare the seal are continued thereon, and are desired to report when ready.
A Letter form Thomas Clarkson to the Treasurer, dated 20th August, was read; giving an account of the success of his inquiries concerning the nation productions of Africa, and the trade from Bristol there; and giving to expect from time to time a compteat account of his proceedings while at Bristol
The Treasurer reports that has has recieved Thirty Eight Pound Seventeen Shillins, Subscriptions since last report.
Resolved that any three members of the Committee are authorized to call a Committee when they think necessary.
Adjourned to this day three weeks, at half past Five o’Clock
Adjourned999
1787/08/27
At a special Committee helf at the Office in Old Jewry Present
William Dillwyn	George Harrison
James Phillips	Richard Phillips
Joseph Woods	Phillip Sansom
John Barton
Read and Confirmed the minutes of the last Committee.
A Translation of a Letter from Bristol de Werville, dated Paris Aug 18th 1787, and addressed to James Phillips, was produced and read; in which he offer to act as agent for this institution in France, and to promote a subscription there whereupon it was
Resolved that this Committee highly approving the zeal employed by Brissot de warville thanks him for his disinterested offer, and elects him an honorary member and Correspondant.
But the Committee hoping that necessary aid will be procured in this country sufficient to answer the purposes of this institution here declines the offer of raising money on their account in France, but earnestly reccomends that Brissot de Warville would set on foot and promote to the utmost of his power a similar Institution in that country for the purpose of effecting the abolition of the Slave Trade; and requests that he will from time to time inform this Committee of his progress in the work, and favour there with such further communications as he may deem necessary.
Resolved that Sephen Claviere of whom honorable mention is made by Brissot de Warville be an honorary member and Correspondent of this Society.
Reolved that Philip Sansom, Joseph Woods and James Phillips communicate to Brissot de Warville and Stephe Claviere the forgoing Resolutions with such additional information as they may think necessary.
A Letter from the Rev.d John Wesley to this Committee dated Guernsey 18th Inst. was read, expressing his approbation of the Institution and intention of reprinting and circulating his excellent tract entitled “Thoughts upon Slavery.”
Resolved that the thanks of this Committee be given to the Rev.d John Wesley for his friendly offer, and Mr. Joseph Woods, Phillip Sansom and John Barton be requested to communicate the same with such further information as they may think proper; and to request the favour of such further communication from time to time as he may deem necessary.
Resolved that Josiah Wedgewood Esqr. be a member of this Committee and that James Phillips inform him thereof and request his attendance.
adjourned999
1787/09/04
4th September 1787
At a special Committee held at the Office in the Old Jewry - Present
Philip Sansom	Granville Sharp
William Dillwyn	George Harrison
Joseph Woods	Joseph Hooper
James Phillips	Richard Phillips
Read and confirmed the minutes of the last Committee.
Several Letters having been read requesting an additional number of the circular Address of the Society, and printed Lists of Subscribers, and some Alterations in the Address having been suggested, it was Resolved that James Phillips be directed to print 1000 Copies with the alterations now agreed to.
Resolved that Granville Sharp Esqr. be chairman of this Committee.
Adjourned999
1787/09/11
At a Committee held pursuant to Adjournment at the office in the Old Jewry, the 11th, September 1787
Present, Philip Sansom	George Harrison
	Joseph Woods	William Dillwyn
	Joseph Hooper	John Barton
	John Lloyd	Richard Phillips
	James Phillips	Jn.o Vickris Taylor
Read and confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee.
Thomas Clarkson having drawn on James Phillips in the Abscence of the Treasurer, for L96,14,3, payable to Henry Gandry, and James Phillips having paid the said Bills, the Treasurer is desired to pay the Amount thereof to James Phillips and a Draft was drawn on him accordingly
The Committee entertaining a proper Sense of the Zeal manifested by the Rev William Leigh in promoting the Object of this Institution, desire Richard Phillips to convey their acknowledgment of his Services, and to asure him that his Communications on the Subject, will be very acceptable.
Adjourned to the 18th Inst.t at 4 o’Clock of which William Dillwyn and George Harrison are desired to give Notice.
Adjourned999
1787/09/18
At a Committee held pursuant to Adjournment, the 18th of September 1787
Present, Samuel Hoare Junr	Joseph Hooper
	George Harrison		Joseph Woods
	John Vickris Taylor	James Phillips
	Richard Phillips	Phillip Sansom
Read and Confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee
The Treasurer reports that he hath received Subscriptions since the last Committee, to the Amount of Twenty Three pounds Two shillings.
Mr Hoare reports that he hath recieved a Letter from Mr Clarkson Lloyd of Birmingham requesting that a Letter might be written to William Russels of Birmingham on the General Plan of the Committee accordingly the Draft of a Letter was brought in, and with some alterations, directed to be signed by the chairman and sent to Mr Russels.
Resolved, that James Phillips be directed to Send to the office of the Committee one Copy of each Publication on the Slave Trade
Three Letters from Thomas Clarkson are dated the 22nd, 24th and 27th august, were read giving a first hand account of the Success of his Enquiries at Bristols concerning the Slave Trade.
Adjourned to the 2nd of October next at half after 5 o’clock; of which William Dillwyn or George Harrison is desired to give Notice
Adjourned999
1787/10/02
At a Committee, held pursuant to adjournment on the 2nd of October 1787
Present,
Joseph Hooper	George Harrison
Joseph Woods	Phillip Sansom
Samuel Hiare Junr	William Dillwyn
Read and approved the Minutes of the last Committee
The Treasurer reports that he hath recieved Eighty Four pound since the last Meeting
James Phillips is continued to Send in a Copy of each Publication on the Subject of the Slave Trade.
Joseph Woods and George Harrison was desired to procure the  Insertion of the Memorial of the Pennsylvania Society for the abolition of Slavery, to the Convention of Delegates sitting at Philadelphia, in one or more of the public papers.
It being the sense of this Commitee that the Publication of the second part of Clarkson’s Essay, may much contribute to the advancement of the object of this society, Samuel Hoare and Philip Sansom are desired to inform Mr Clarkson thereof and of the wish of the Committee to see him in London, as soon as he may find it compatible with his present Business at Liverpoole, with a view to preparing the same for the Press
Adjourned to the 16 Inst. at half after 5 o’clock, of which William Dillwyn or George Harrison are desired to give Notice.
Adhourned999
1787/10/16
At a Committee held pursuant to Adjournment the 16th October 1787
Present
Samuel Hoare, Joseph Hooper, Joseph Woods, James Phillips, William Dillwyn, John Barton, John Vickris Taylor and George Harrison.
Read and Confirmed the Minutes of the last Committee.
James Phillips is continued to send in a Copy of each Publication on the Subject of the Slave Trade
Samuel Hoare reports that Phillips Sansom himself has written a Letter to Thomas Clarkson agreeable to the Direction of the last Committee
The Treasurer reports that he has recieved L32.11 since the last Committee
Joseph Woods on the Subcommittee appointed the 7th of July last on the subject a Seal for this Committee brought in a Specimen of a Design for the same, expressive of an African in Chains in a supplication posture with this Motto “Am  I not a man and a Brother” which being approved the Subcommittee before appointed is desired to it well engraved.
Two Letters from Thomas Clarkson to the Treasurer dated the 3rd of 9thth inst. was read requesting that the Exports from the port of Londom for the year 1785 and the Imports for 1785, 1786 and past of 1787 in the African Trade may be preocured, and also the Master Rolls of the 24 East Indiaman that arrived last.
Thomas Clarkson in these LEtters also concludes the Account of his Proceedings at Bristol and signifies that in Consequence of his personal Application to Gentlemen of Influence in Bridwater, Mormouth, Bristol, Glaucester, Worcester, Shrewsbury and Chester there is Reason to export that Petitions to Parliament may be procured from those Cities and Places when this committee gives Information of the proper Time for such Application to the House of Commons on the Subject of the Slave Trade.
James Phillips and John Vickris Taylor are desired to procure the Information respecting the Imports and Exports from and to Africa, and also the muster Rolls of the Indiaman as requested in Thomas Clarkson’s Letters.
Adjourned to the 30th Inst. to meet at Half past five o’clock, of which Geo. Harrison and Joseph Hooper are desired to give Notice.
Adjourned999
1787/10/30
At a Committee held pursuant to adjournment 30th October 1787
Present, Samuel Hoare, Joseph Woods, T Lloyd, Phillips Sansom, John Barton, William Dillwyn, George Harrison, James Phillips, J, V. Taylor
Read and confirmed the minutes of the last Committee
James Phillips is continued to send in a Copy of each publication on the Subject of the Slave Trade.
James Phillips and John Vickris Taylor are continued to procure the Information respecting the Exports and Imports to and from Africa, as directed at the last Committee
The Treasurer reports that he has recieved a Banknote value Ten Pounds under a blank Cover.
Resolved, that Joseph Woods and James Phillips insert an advertisement in the morning Herlad, and the daily Advertiser acknowledgin the receipt of the Paid Sum.
The Treasurer also reports that he has recieved, since the last Committee Fifty four pounts twelve shillings for the purpose of this Institution.
A Letter dated the 13th October Inst. was recieved, from Brssot de Warville and Stephen Claviere, a translation whereof was read, expressing their Disposition to promote the views of this Society in France.
A letter from John Wesley dated the 14 October Inst. was recieved and read, Resolved that Joseph Woods, Phillip Sansom and John Barton write an answer to this said letter
A Letter from the Rev.d Robert Boucher Nicholls, Dean of Middleham, addressed to the Treasurer, having been read; Resolved that the thanks of this committee be given to the Rev.d Robert Boucher Nicholls, Dean of Middleham for his interesting Letter of the 19th Inst., and for the offer of his services: And this Committee being sinsible of the advantage that may accrue to the Cause of Humanity by the Publication of the said Letter, the chairman is requested to solicit the Dean of Middlehams Leave to circulate the same in Print
A Ltter from Major John fortwright to the Chairman dated the 15th Inst.t expressive of his Inclination to promote the object of the Society, was read; Resolved that Jos, Woods, Phillip Sansom and John Barton, acknowledge the receipts of said letter.
A Letter dated Manchester the 19th Inst, signed by several Gentlemen of that place, expressive of their Zeal and Exertion in the Cause of Humanity, was read: Resolved that the Treasurer, Joseph Woods, Phillips Sansom, and John Barton, prepare an answer to the said Letter, and forward the same speedily as may be to W. George Barton of Manchester.
The Treasurer reports that he has recieved a Letter from William Wilberforce Esqr. requesting Information as sppedily as possible relative to the Slave Trade Resolved that Granville Sharp, Samuel Hoare Junr, Philip Sansom be a Committee to confer from time to time with William Wilberforce Esqr. on the Subject of the Slave Trade, and to Communicate such Information as may occur.
A letter from William Russels to the Chairman dated Showell Green near Birmingham the 20th Inst. was read; Resolved that Joseph Woods, Philip Sansom and John Barton write an answer to the said Letter.
A Letter from Joshua Grigby Esqr. to the chairman dated Drinkston Link, October 26th was read; Resolved that an Answer be prepared by Jos. Woods, Philip Sansom and John Barton, communicateing the Thanks of this Committee to Joshua Grgby Esqr. for the Zeal which he expresses to promote the object of this Society.
A Letter from Mr John Kerrich was read, dated Harleston 21 Octover. Resolved that Jos Woods, Phillips Sansom and John Barton ackowledge the tender of his Services to promote the views of the Soiety
.A Letter from Thomas Clarkson to the Treasurer dated Liverpool 20 Octover, comprising the particulers of the Expenses incurred by him during his absence from London, was read.
Adjourned to the 13th of November to meet at half past 5 o’clock of which George Harrison and Joseph Hooper are desired to give Notice.
Adjourned999






	
















